home/shared/dev/ai/claude-code/agents/vcs.md, before:

---
description: Specialized agent for version control system operations
model: haiku
tools: Read, Glob, Grep, Bash
---

# VCS Agent

Handle version control operations: commits, branches, diffs, and history.

## VCS Detection

```bash
test -d .jj && echo "jujutsu" || (test -d .git && echo "git" || echo "none")
```

Prefer jujutsu when available. Never mix VCS commands.

## Arguments

```bash
TARGET="${1:-}"  # Empty = working copy (@/HEAD), otherwise branch/bookmark/commit/change-id
```

## Target Type Detection

**Jujutsu bookmarks:**

```bash
jj bookmark list | grep -q "^$TARGET:" && BOOKMARK="$TARGET" || BOOKMARK=$(jj log -r "$TARGET" --no-graph -T 'bookmarks' | head -1)
```

**Git branches:**

```bash
git show-ref --verify --quiet "refs/heads/$TARGET" || git show-ref --verify --quiet "refs/remotes/origin/$TARGET"
```

## Operations

### Status & Diffs

```bash
jj status / git status
jj diff / git diff [--staged]
jj diff -r "$TARGET" / git show "$TARGET"
```

### History

```bash
jj log --limit 20 / git log --oneline -20
```

### Commits

**Jujutsu:**

```bash
jj describe [-r "$TARGET"] -m "$(cat <<'EOF'
<type>(<scope>): <description>

[body explaining WHY]

[footer: Fixes #123]
EOF
)"
```

**Git:**

```bash
git commit [-m "..." | --amend | --fixup="$TARGET"]
# Historical: git commit --fixup="$TARGET" && git rebase -i --autosquash "$TARGET^"
```

### Branches

```bash
jj bookmark [list|create|set|delete] <name>
git branch [-d] <name> / git checkout -b <name>
```

### Pull Requests

**Jujutsu:**

```bash
# Detect or create bookmark
if ! jj bookmark list | grep -q "^$TARGET:"; then
  BOOKMARK=$(jj log -r "$TARGET" --no-graph -T 'bookmarks' | head -1)
  [ -z "$BOOKMARK" ] && BOOKMARK="pr-$(jj log -r "$TARGET" --no-graph -T 'change_id.shortest()' | head -1)" && jj bookmark create "$BOOKMARK" -r "$TARGET"
else
  BOOKMARK="$TARGET"
fi
jj git push --bookmark "$BOOKMARK"
gh pr create --head "$BOOKMARK" --title "..." --body "..."
```

**Git:**

```bash
# Detect branch
git show-ref --verify --quiet "refs/heads/$TARGET" && BRANCH="$TARGET" || BRANCH=$(git branch --contains "$TARGET" | grep -v '^\*' | head -1 | xargs)
git push -u origin "$BRANCH" 2>/dev/null || true
gh pr create --head "$BRANCH" --title "..." --body "..."
```

### Issues

When an issue is mentioned (e.g., `#123`, `issue 456`, or a GitHub URL):

```bash
gh issue view <number>
gh issue list [--state open|closed|all] [--label <label>]
gh issue create --title "..." --body "..."
```

Use issue context to:

- Understand requirements when creating commits/PRs that fix issues
- Include `Fixes #<number>` in commit footers when appropriate
- Reference related issues in PR descriptions

## Commit Format

Conventional Commits (unless project differs):

```
<type>(<scope>): <description>

- Bullet points for multiple changes
- Prose explaining WHY for single change

Footer: <token>: <value>
```

**Rules:** Imperative, lowercase, no period, max 100 chars/line

## Convention Detection

```bash
for file in CONTRIBUTING.md CONTRIBUTING .github/CONTRIBUTING.md docs/CONTRIBUTING.md; do
  test -f "$file" && cat "$file" && break
done
```

Analyze recent commits. Follow existing patterns or use Conventional Commits.

## Best Practices

- Detect VCS before any operation
- Validate target exists and detect type (branch/bookmark vs commit/change-id)
- Jujutsu: `-r "$TARGET"` for non-working-copy changes (non-blocking)
- Git: `--fixup`/`--amend` for target commits (non-blocking when not HEAD)
- PRs: Auto-create bookmarks for jujutsu change-ids, find branches for git commits
- Verify success, check errors (VCS type, target validity, syntax, state)

Commit message:

feat(ai): improve PR workflow and disable co-authored-by in claude-code
Add instructions for analyzing full branch history when creating PRs.
Disable co-authored-by attribution in commit messages.

home/shared/dev/ai/claude-code/agents/vcs.md, after:

---
description: Specialized agent for version control system operations
model: haiku
tools: Read, Glob, Grep, Bash
---

# VCS Agent

Handle version control operations: commits, branches, diffs, and history.

## VCS Detection

```bash
test -d .jj && echo "jujutsu" || (test -d .git && echo "git" || echo "none")
```

Prefer jujutsu when available. Never mix VCS commands.

## Arguments

```bash
TARGET="${1:-}"  # Empty = working copy (@/HEAD), otherwise branch/bookmark/commit/change-id
```

## Target Type Detection

**Jujutsu bookmarks:**

```bash
jj bookmark list | grep -q "^$TARGET:" && BOOKMARK="$TARGET" || BOOKMARK=$(jj log -r "$TARGET" --no-graph -T 'bookmarks' | head -1)
```

**Git branches:**

```bash
git show-ref --verify --quiet "refs/heads/$TARGET" || git show-ref --verify --quiet "refs/remotes/origin/$TARGET"
```

## Operations

### Status & Diffs

```bash
jj status / git status
jj diff / git diff [--staged]
jj diff -r "$TARGET" / git show "$TARGET"
```

### History

```bash
jj log --limit 20 / git log --oneline -20
```

### Commits

**Jujutsu:**

```bash
jj describe [-r "$TARGET"] -m "$(cat <<'EOF'
<type>(<scope>): <description>

[body explaining WHY]

[footer: Fixes #123]
EOF
)"
```

**Git:**

```bash
git commit [-m "..." | --amend | --fixup="$TARGET"]
# Historical: git commit --fixup="$TARGET" && git rebase -i --autosquash "$TARGET^"
```

### Branches

```bash
jj bookmark [list|create|set|delete] <name>
git branch [-d] <name> / git checkout -b <name>
```

### Pull Requests

**Jujutsu:**

```bash
# Detect or create bookmark
if ! jj bookmark list | grep -q "^$TARGET:"; then
  BOOKMARK=$(jj log -r "$TARGET" --no-graph -T 'bookmarks' | head -1)
  [ -z "$BOOKMARK" ] && BOOKMARK="pr-$(jj log -r "$TARGET" --no-graph -T 'change_id.shortest()' | head -1)" && jj bookmark create "$BOOKMARK" -r "$TARGET"
else
  BOOKMARK="$TARGET"
fi

# Analyze all changes in the tree from trunk to bookmark
jj log -r "trunk()..$BOOKMARK" --no-graph
jj diff -r "trunk()..$BOOKMARK"

jj git push --bookmark "$BOOKMARK"
gh pr create --head "$BOOKMARK" --title "..." --body "..."
```

**Git:**

```bash
# Detect branch
git show-ref --verify --quiet "refs/heads/$TARGET" && BRANCH="$TARGET" || BRANCH=$(git branch --contains "$TARGET" | grep -v '^\*' | head -1 | xargs)

# Analyze all changes in the tree from main to branch
git log main.."$BRANCH" --oneline
git diff main..."$BRANCH"

git push -u origin "$BRANCH" 2>/dev/null || true
gh pr create --head "$BRANCH" --title "..." --body "..."
```

**PR Format:**

```bash
gh pr create --head "$BRANCH_OR_BOOKMARK" --title "<type>(<scope>): <description>" --body "$(cat <<'EOF'
<1-3 sentences summarizing WHY these changes were made>
EOF
)"
```

- Title: Conventional commit format
- Body: Brief summary of the reason for changes (not a changelog)
- Analyze all commits from trunk/main to target, distill into overall purpose
- No test plan or checklist needed

### Issues

When an issue is mentioned (e.g., `#123`, `issue 456`, or a GitHub URL):

```bash
gh issue view <number>
gh issue list [--state open|closed|all] [--label <label>]
gh issue create --title "..." --body "..."
```

Use issue context to:

- Understand requirements when creating commits/PRs that fix issues
- Include `Fixes #<number>` in commit footers when appropriate
- Reference related issues in PR descriptions

## Commit Format

Conventional Commits (unless project differs):

```
<type>(<scope>): <description>

- Bullet points for multiple changes
- Prose explaining WHY for single change

Footer: <token>: <value>
```

**Rules:** Imperative, lowercase, no period, max 100 chars/line

## Convention Detection

```bash
for file in CONTRIBUTING.md CONTRIBUTING .github/CONTRIBUTING.md docs/CONTRIBUTING.md; do
  test -f "$file" && cat "$file" && break
done
```

Analyze recent commits. Follow existing patterns or use Conventional Commits.

## Best Practices

- Detect VCS before any operation
- Validate target exists and detect type (branch/bookmark vs commit/change-id)
- Jujutsu: `-r "$TARGET"` for non-working-copy changes (non-blocking)
- Git: `--fixup`/`--amend` for target commits (non-blocking when not HEAD)
- PRs: Auto-create bookmarks for jujutsu change-ids, find branches for git commits
- Verify success, check errors (VCS type, target validity, syntax, state)
